README.md, before:

# OpenClaw Async Telegram Bot Skill

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-16a34a.svg)](./LICENSE)
[![Skill](https://img.shields.io/badge/skill-openclaw--async--telegram--bot-2563eb.svg)](./SKILL.md)
[![Discover on Smithery](https://img.shields.io/badge/Smithery-Discover-111827.svg)](https://smithery.ai/skills/nebutra/openclaw-async-telegram-bot-skill)

English | [简体中文](./README.zh-CN.md)

Scale one OpenClaw into a multi-bot Telegram fleet in minutes.

This skill automates Telegram bot onboarding with guardrails:
- validates tokens with Telegram `getMe`
- enforces username policy `Nebutra###_bot`
- auto-maps bot naming to Greek philosopher identities
- wires bots into OpenClaw accounts
- restarts and health-checks gateway automatically
- can spawn one isolated agent per bot for parallel workflows

## Install in 10 Seconds

```bash
npx skills add https://github.com/Nebutra/OpenClaw-Async-Telegram-Bot-Skill --skill openclaw-async-telegram-bot
```

Alternative discovery pages:
- Smithery: https://smithery.ai/skills/nebutra/openclaw-async-telegram-bot-skill
- Skills directory: https://skills.sh/nebutra/openclaw-async-telegram-bot-skill/openclaw-async-telegram-bot

## Quick Start

```bash
# add/update one Telegram bot account
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<BOTFATHER_TOKEN>"

# add bot + create isolated agent bound to this account
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<BOTFATHER_TOKEN>" --agent-id "plato-agent"
```

## Why This Converts for Growth Teams

- Fast activation: go from token to active channel in one command.
- Safe by default: prevents wrong usernames and unhealthy channel states.
- Parallel ops ready: one bot per campaign, account, or workflow lane.
- Deterministic naming: cleaner routing and easier team handoff.
- Repeatable SOP: operators can scale without hand-editing config files.

## Hacker Growth Playbook

Use this as a bot-fleet growth loop:
1. Create multiple bots in BotFather using `Nebutra###_bot`.
2. Run this script to onboard each token.
3. Bind each bot to a dedicated agent (`--agent-id`).
4. Assign each bot to a single acquisition channel or audience segment.
5. Track response quality and conversion by bot/account, then iterate.

Example segmentation:
- `Socrates` bot for inbound qualification
- `Plato` bot for onboarding guidance
- `Aristotle` bot for retention nudges

## Command Reference

```bash
# force account id
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --account-id "plato-007"

# force display name
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --name "Plato"

# dry run only
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --dry-run

# skip gateway restart
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --skip-restart

# use a different model when creating agent
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --agent-id "plato-agent" --model "MiniMax-M2.5"
```

## Safety and Policy

- Username must match: `^Nebutra[0-9]{3}_bot$`
- Token must pass Telegram API validation
- Health checks must pass: `running=true` and `probe.ok=true`
- Prevents account-id collisions with existing bot IDs

## Repository Layout

- `SKILL.md` - trigger rules + workflow for agent execution
- `scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh` - production onboarding script

## Requirements

- `openclaw`
- `curl`
- `jq`

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: replace growth-playbook copy with presentation-style notes

README.md, after:

# OpenClaw Async Telegram Bot Skill

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-16a34a.svg)](./LICENSE)
[![Skill](https://img.shields.io/badge/skill-openclaw--async--telegram--bot-2563eb.svg)](./SKILL.md)
[![Discover on Smithery](https://img.shields.io/badge/Smithery-Discover-111827.svg)](https://smithery.ai/skills/nebutra/openclaw-async-telegram-bot-skill)

English | [简体中文](./README.zh-CN.md)

Scale one OpenClaw into a multi-bot Telegram fleet in minutes.

This skill automates Telegram bot onboarding with guardrails:
- validates tokens with Telegram `getMe`
- enforces username policy `Nebutra###_bot`
- auto-maps bot naming to Greek philosopher identities
- wires bots into OpenClaw accounts
- restarts and health-checks gateway automatically
- can spawn one isolated agent per bot for parallel workflows

## Install in 10 Seconds

```bash
npx skills add https://github.com/Nebutra/OpenClaw-Async-Telegram-Bot-Skill --skill openclaw-async-telegram-bot
```

Alternative discovery pages:
- Smithery: https://smithery.ai/skills/nebutra/openclaw-async-telegram-bot-skill
- Skills directory: https://skills.sh/nebutra/openclaw-async-telegram-bot-skill/openclaw-async-telegram-bot

## Quick Start

```bash
# add/update one Telegram bot account
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<BOTFATHER_TOKEN>"

# add bot + create isolated agent bound to this account
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<BOTFATHER_TOKEN>" --agent-id "plato-agent"
```

## Presentation Style

- Hero-first layout: value proposition + install CTA visible at the top.
- Clean command hierarchy: install, quick start, then command reference.
- Safety-forward structure: policy and health checks are explicit and scannable.
- Distribution-ready links: GitHub, Smithery, and skills.sh are grouped for fast access.

## Command Reference

```bash
# force account id
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --account-id "plato-007"

# force display name
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --name "Plato"

# dry run only
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --dry-run

# skip gateway restart
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --skip-restart

# use a different model when creating agent
bash scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh --token "<TOKEN>" --agent-id "plato-agent" --model "MiniMax-M2.5"
```

## Safety and Policy

- Username must match: `^Nebutra[0-9]{3}_bot$`
- Token must pass Telegram API validation
- Health checks must pass: `running=true` and `probe.ok=true`
- Prevents account-id collisions with existing bot IDs

## Repository Layout

- `SKILL.md` - trigger rules + workflow for agent execution
- `scripts/add_async_telegram_bot.sh` - production onboarding script

## Requirements

- `openclaw`
- `curl`
- `jq`

## License

MIT
